Once there was a golem farmer named Gethry who was made of pure gold. Gethry kept an amazing valley full of green growing things. Things in this valley were beautiful with flowing canopies of brightly painted fruits, and vegetables of all shapes and sizes.

In the center of the valley stood Gethry's small hutch which held all his tools, and which he stood in when he was not working the land. Standing still was his way of resting, for since he was a golem he never actually slept. He stayed in the hut for shelter from the sun because he knew that being made of gold would make his body hot in the sun. If he got too hot then he would harm any plants that he touched. 

To the side and arching above Gethry's hutch stood the first tree that Gethry planted on entering the valley centuries ago. This tree was the only one of its kind in all of UR, for it had the gift of thought and feel. 

On bright mornings this tree would see Gethry exit his hutch, smile up at it, and head out to the fields. The tree began to grow jealous; jealous of how brightly Gethry did shine. On cold nights Gethry would light a fire nearby and sit in the grass near the tree's roots. Leaning closer to the wormth the tree could see that besides the fire, Gethry was the brightest thing in all the valley.

The tree became so sour that its leaves whithered and its limbs dried. One cold night when Gethry set his fire close to the tree, the tree did stretch and reach down and set its branch ablaze. Though it hurt its limbs the tree pulled the flame close to itself and burned with a blazing light more bright than anything in the valley had ever seen.

In the morning Gethry brought a jug of water and doused the top of the stump. He asked but one word, "Why?"

The stump replied in a weak, creaking, gravelly voice, "In all my years here you've stepped out of your surly little hutch and smiled and revelled in your own brightness and it disgusted me; for nothing born in this valley was ever created with the chance to shine like you, and this was both by your design and for your own pridefull joy. Well, last night I have shown brighter than you ever could or ever will until the end of this world's days. I have outshown you!"

The look on Gethry's face became a look of sad understanding and he said, "Little tree, every morning I stepped from my hutch I did smile, " he said, "I smiled to see your strength, at seeing the flowers on your branches, the animals that you sheltered. I smiled on seeing the greatness that you brought to this valley. The brightness you blazed with last night was the sadest thing I have seen since I first set foot here from over those hills."

The whithered stump stood silent, steam sizzling from its bald top.

"But," Gethry said, pausing to look around, "there is some good in what happened last night. I am the one who planted you and I alone knew that the only way to sprout your seeds is with a great heat. Your flame last night was certainly hot enough; so far my nightly fires were nothing in comparison. Perhaps if I water your stump and you become less sour you may sprout again and see the begining of your children's forest to come." 

Gethry left to get more water. The tree then felt warmed inside and decided that that warmth was greater than any brightness the valley would ever see.




